James Murdock (Feb 16, 1776 - Aug 10, 1856) was born, Feb. 16th, 1776 at Westbrook, Connecticut. He was son of Protestant Scotch-Irish descent. He was an orphan from the age of fourteen months, till the age of fifteen, when his uncle, Rev. Jonathan Murdock helped him prepare to entered college. He was admitted to Yale College in 1793, at the age of seventeen and graduated in 1797. He won the Berkeleian Premium, which was given to the best scholar in the class, and to the one whose exams in Latin and Greek are exemplary. After graduation, he became Preceptor of the Hopkins Grammar School in New Haven, Connecticut. In 1799, he took charge, for one year, of Hamilton Oneida Academy, now Hamilton College, at Clinton, New York. He married Rebecca Lydia (born Atwater) Murdock on October of 1799 and they had 10 children. He was licensed as a Congregational minister in January, 1801. In February, 1802, he received a call to settle in Princeton County Massachusetts, and was ordained there. In 1815, he resigned his pastoral charge and was appointed Professor of the learned languages in the University of Vermont. He moved to Burlington, Vermont where he was Professor of the learned languages and Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. In 1818, he became Professor of Languages.  In the spring of 1819, being appointed Brown Professor of Sacred Rhetoric and Ecclesiastical History in the Theological Seminary at Andover, he left Vermont and returned to Massachusetts. In the autumn of that year, Harvard University conferred on him the honorary degree of S.T.D.(Doctor of Sacred Theology) Difficulties soon afterwards arose between him and the other Professors, respecting his course of duties in the Seminary which continued several years, until in 1828 when he decided to leave the Institution. He moved to New Haven in 1829, where he continued to reside. He retired from public life, and devoted himself to private studies and especially to Ecclesiastical History. For a few years he preached and delivered lectures in different places, but of late seldom appeared as a public speaker. He was made an honorary member of the New York Historical Society several. He was also Vice President, and recently President, of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. He served as Vice President of the Philological Society of Connecticut, of which he was one of the original founders. He was also one of the founders and corporate members of the American Oriental Society, and a regular contributor to its learned Journal. This was an Association of Oriental Scholars, so select and exclusive that it had no honorary members in America, only three in England, a few on the continent of Europe, and a few in Asia. In the Autumn of 1855, Dr. Murdock went to Columbus, Mississippi, where he spent a delightful winter in the family of his son, visiting various portions of the Southern country, and anticipating a return to New Haven in the ensuing Spring, his strength gave way, and he died on August 10, 1856.


